previous-versions/2019.md, before:

## How we do development at TotallyMoney

## Contributing

This is a living document and all engineers at TotallyMoney are welcome to add to it. If you want to make suggestions please add these as an **Issue** if you which to edit this document please make your changes as a **Pull Request**.

## About this document

This is not designed to be a list of technologies or practices which are the reserve of frontend/backend or senior/junior devs. It’s not meant to be a technical document at all.
It is more an exploration of what motivates us as developers, and voicing those ideas that might be collectively held in the minds of people who enjoy working here.

_So broadly speaking, here are a few themes that we instinctively promote at TotallyMoney._

## Autonomy

Ultimately as developers we believe you need autonomy over how you do your job, whether that’s the way you choose to solve a problem, the technology you use or decisions on how to architect. The flip slide of autonomy is ownership, because when you feel you have the freedom to make something the way you think best, you feel engaged in making it the best you can.

- you build it you run it
- you decide how to solve problems
- the freedom to try new things

## Disposable Infrastructure

This talks about both a practise of being able to spin up your application ecosystem quickly (for example on your laptop) but also talks in an abstract way of how you system should be experimental and transient.

- write services to be cloud native
- embrace infrastructure as code as a practice
- experiment without fear of failure

## Moving Fast

If your tests pass you should never be afraid to release to production; moving fast, rely on your tests, logging and knowledge that you can always roll back.

- process as an enabler not a restriction
- using the same artifact in all environments
- make it easy to release often
- logging as part of a feature
- fix fast

## Learning from Functional

Learning from functional concepts of immutability, keeping your functions pure.

- mutable state is the root of all evil
- keep functions pure

## It’s Our Thing

We have a product, we’re not developing for other people and we don’t have a client telling us what they want. We harvest the hive mind of the customer, and they - via analytics - tell us if something works or not. The closeness to the UX/Product team means that we are involved in shaping the product, which again feeds into the feeling of ownership.

- build, measure, learn
- product focussed development
- everyone has a voice and can make a contribution

## Delivering Value

Engineering resource is precious so make code count! The real value of what we do is not solving the problems that have already been solved it’s in the unique new features we can deliver to our customers.

- be aware of services and libraries that can do the heavy lifting
- automate repetitive tasks
- prioritise the problems that nobody has solved
- focus on code that enhances the customer experience

Commit message:

Added don't be rushed and clarified statement about making it easy to iterate

previous-versions/2019.md, after:

## How we do development at TotallyMoney

## Contributing

This is a living document and all engineers at TotallyMoney are welcome to add to it. If you want to make suggestions please add these as an **Issue** if you which to edit this document please make your changes as a **Pull Request**.

## About this document

This is not designed to be a list of technologies or practices which are the reserve of frontend/backend or senior/junior devs. It’s not meant to be a technical document at all.
It is more an exploration of what motivates us as developers, and voicing those ideas that might be collectively held in the minds of people who enjoy working here.

_So broadly speaking, here are a few themes that we instinctively promote at TotallyMoney._

## Autonomy

Ultimately as developers we believe you need autonomy over how you do your job, whether that’s the way you choose to solve a problem, the technology you use or decisions on how to architect. The flip slide of autonomy is ownership, because when you feel you have the freedom to make something the way you think best, you feel engaged in making it the best you can.

- you build it you run it
- you decide how to solve problems
- the freedom to try new things

## Disposable Infrastructure

This talks about both a practise of being able to spin up your application ecosystem quickly (for example on your laptop) but also talks in an abstract way of how you system should be experimental and transient.

- write services to be cloud native
- embrace infrastructure as code as a practice
- experiment without fear of failure

## Moving Fast

If your tests pass you should never be afraid to release to production; moving fast, rely on your tests, logging and knowledge that you can always roll back.

- invest time in making it as easy as possible to iterate
- process as an enabler not a restriction
- logging as part of a feature
- fix fast
- don't be rushed

## Learning from Functional

Learning from functional concepts of immutability, keeping your functions pure.

- mutable state is the root of all evil
- keep functions pure

## It’s Our Thing

We have a product, we’re not developing for other people and we don’t have a client telling us what they want. We harvest the hive mind of the customer, and they - via analytics - tell us if something works or not. The closeness to the UX/Product team means that we are involved in shaping the product, which again feeds into the feeling of ownership.

- build, measure, learn
- product focussed development
- everyone has a voice and can make a contribution

## Delivering Value

Engineering resource is precious so make code count! The real value of what we do is not solving the problems that have already been solved it’s in the unique new features we can deliver to our customers.

- be aware of services and libraries that can do the heavy lifting
- automate repetitive tasks
- prioritise the problems that nobody has solved
- focus on code that enhances the customer experience
